Aes Sedai – A group of sorceresses created after the fall of the Ancients, using the power of Pandorym.

Ajah – The name given to one of the seven different groups of Aes Sedai: the Blue (Causes), Green, Yellow, Red, White, Gray and Brown (Historians and scientists). Each Ajah has its own specific purpose and rules.

Moraine Damodred – (Aliases: Tesot, Alys) A powerful sorceress and Aes Sedai of the blue ajah. She has been masquerading as a wizard for many years at the Unseen University in Culend Tor. She has devoted most of her life to finding and helping the five heroes from the Karaethon Cycle. (She gave Ernest a fake diamond dolphin once).

Pandorym – (Aliases: The Dark One, The God of Chaos) Some sort of beast or god that attacked and destroyed most of the Ancients and many gods. Pandorym is something most people are unaware of, but the gods fear is coming back to destroy everything.

Shadrath – Apparently used to be one of the great nations of the Westland, but there is no substantive records of it anywhere. You saw a vision of it being attacked and disappearing over 600 years ago. Seventeen women survived it, some of the Aes Sedai, and they have not aged since. It is unknown how many are still alive, but you know of at least 4.

Tar Valon – (Alias: The White Tower) A tower larger than either the Tower of Sorcery or the Unseen University, it was based in Shadrath and was home to the Aes Sedai.

Two Rivers – The small town home of Egwene, Nynaeve, Perrin, and Matt. You visited there to find Moraine and were attacked by tons of undead who were sent to kill Egwene and Nynaeve. Two Aes Sedai, Adeleas and Vandene, live nearby, the twin mothers of Egwene and Nynaeve. Vandene helped Ernest learn counterspell, Adeleas was less than welcoming.

Verin Mathewin – An Aes Sedai, and head of the Tower of Sorcery in Culend Tor. She introduced you to Matt Cauthon and helped Bryn to regain some of her lost memories. She seems very scattered much of the time, short, plump, and pleasant.

Warder – Protectors of the Aes Sedai, you have met one, Tomas, who is warder to Verin.

